1. Backend Server First
Why?

Foundation: The backend server is the foundation of your application. It handles business logic, user authentication, and interactions with the database. Building it first will give you a clear idea of the data structure and endpoints you'll need for the frontend.
API Design: Starting with the backend allows you to design and test your API endpoints before you build the frontend, ensuring that the frontend will have the functionality it needs.
Database Schema: You can define the database schema and data models based on the backend requirements. This ensures that the database and backend are in sync.
2. Database Setup
Why?

Integration: After setting up the backend, you’ll configure MongoDB to match the data models and requirements of your application. This ensures that the database is ready to handle requests from the backend.
3. Frontend Website
Why React?

React: For an Online Marketplace, React is a strong choice due to its flexibility, component-based architecture, and large ecosystem. It’s great for building dynamic, interactive user interfaces, which are essential for an e-commerce platform.
Ease of Use: React’s learning curve is generally considered to be less steep compared to Angular, especially if you’re already familiar with JavaScript. Its component-based approach also aligns well with building complex UIs with reusable components.
Key Points for React:

Component-Based Architecture: Helps in managing and reusing components across the application.
State Management: Libraries like Redux or Context API can help manage the state of your application effectively.
Performance: React’s virtual DOM helps in optimizing performance by minimizing direct interactions with the actual DOM.
Summary of Steps:
Backend Server: Design and implement the backend, including API endpoints and business logic.
Database Setup: Set up MongoDB and define the data models based on the backend requirements.
Frontend Website: Build the frontend using React, focusing on creating a dynamic and interactive user experience.


PRIORITIES ON SERVER

To build the server side of your Online Marketplace application, you'll need to set up several core components. Here's a prioritized list of what you'll need for the login, authentication, and main functions of the marketplace:

1. User Authentication and Authorization
User Registration: Functionality for users to create accounts.
User Login: Authentication system for users to log in securely.
Password Management: Features for password reset and updating.
Session Management: Handling user sessions (e.g., using JWTs or sessions with cookies).
Role-Based Access Control (RBAC): Define user roles (e.g., admin, seller, buyer) and their permissions.
2. Database Models and Schemas
User Model: Define user attributes (e.g., username, email, hashed password, role).
Product Model: Define product attributes (e.g., name, description, price, stock, category).
Order Model: Define order attributes (e.g., user ID, product IDs, quantity, total price, order status).
Review Model: Define review attributes (e.g., user ID, product ID, rating, comment).
Category Model: Define product categories for filtering and organizing.
3. API Endpoints
User Management: Endpoints for user registration, login, and profile management.
Product Management: Endpoints for adding, updating, deleting, and retrieving products.
Order Management: Endpoints for creating, updating, retrieving, and deleting orders.
Review Management: Endpoints for adding, updating, deleting, and retrieving reviews.
Search and Filtering: Endpoints for searching and filtering products based on various criteria (e.g., price, category, ratings).
4. Payment Integration
Payment Gateway Integration: Set up a payment gateway (e.g., Stripe, PayPal) for processing transactions.
Order Processing: Ensure orders are created and updated based on payment status.
5. Security Features
Data Validation and Sanitization: Protect against common vulnerabilities (e.g., SQL injection, XSS).
Rate Limiting: Prevent abuse of API endpoints.
Encryption: Use encryption for sensitive data (e.g., passwords with bcrypt).
6. Email Notifications
Email Service Integration: Set up an email service (e.g., SendGrid) for account verification, password resets, and order confirmations.
7. Error Handling and Logging
Error Handling: Implement consistent error responses and logging for debugging.
Logging: Set up logging for API requests and application errors.
8. Documentation
API Documentation: Provide documentation for your API endpoints (e.g., using Swagger or Postman).
Summary:
User Authentication and Authorization
Database Models and Schemas
API Endpoints
Payment Integration
Security Features
Email Notifications
Error Handling and Logging
Documentation
Starting with user authentication and authorization will provide a solid foundation for building other features. Once you have the user management system in place, you can move on to setting up the database models and API endpoints. If you need help with any specific part, just let me know!



INIT THE PROJECT


npm init -y

2. Install Dependencies
npm install express mongoose bcryptjs jsonwebtoken dotenv express-session cookie-parser cors multer

3. Project Structure

online_marketplace/
│
├── backend/
│   ├── config/
│   ├── controllers/
│   ├── middleware/
│   ├── models/
│   ├── routes/
│   ├── .env
│   ├── app.js
│   ├── package.json
│   └── ...
│
├── frontend/
│   ├── public/
│   ├── src/
│   ├── .env
│   ├── package.json
│   └── ...
│
├── .gitignore
└── README.md




4. INSTALL MONGO DB

sudo apt-get install gnupg curl

Para importar a chave GPG pública do MongoDB, execute o seguinte comando:

curl -fsSL https://www.mongodb.org/static/pgp/server-7.0.asc | \
   sudo gpg -o /usr/share/keyrings/mongodb-server-7.0.gpg \
   --dearmor

2
Crie um arquivo de lista para o MongoDB
Crie o arquivo de lista /etc/apt/sources.list.d/mongodb-org-7.0.list para sua versão do Ubuntu.


Ubuntu 22.04 (Jammy)

Ubuntu 20.04 (Focal)
Crie o arquivo /etc/apt/sources.list.d/mongodb-org-7.0.list para o Ubuntu 22.04 (Jammy):

echo "deb [ arch=amd64,arm64 signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/mongodb-server-7.0.gpg ] https://repo.mongodb.org/apt/ubuntu jammy/mongodb-org/7.0 multiverse" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/mongodb-org-7.0.list

3
Recarregar o banco de dados do pacote local
Dê o seguinte comando para recarregar a base de dados do pacote local:

sudo apt-get update

4
Instale os pacotes do MongoDB
Você pode instalar a versão estável mais recente do MongoDB ou uma versão específica do MongoDB.



Versão específica do MongoDB
sudo apt-get install -y mongodb-org=7.0.12 mongodb-org-database=7.0.12 mongodb-org-server=7.0.12 mongodb-mongosh=7.0.12 mongodb-org-mongos=7.0.12 mongodb-org-tools=7.0.12

Para instalar a versão estável mais recente, emita o seguinte
sudo apt-get install -y mongodb-org

Opcional. Embora você possa especificar qualquer versão disponível do MongoDB, o apt-get atualizará os pacotes quando uma versão mais nova se tornar disponível. Para evitar atualizações indesejadas, você pode fixar o pacote na versão que está instalada atualmente:

echo "mongodb-org hold" | sudo dpkg --set-selections
echo "mongodb-org-database hold" | sudo dpkg --set-selections
echo "mongodb-org-server hold" | sudo dpkg --set-selections
echo "mongodb-mongosh hold" | sudo dpkg --set-selections
echo "mongodb-org-mongos hold" | sudo dpkg --set-selections
echo "mongodb-org-tools hold" | sudo dpkg --set-selections

Diretórios
Se você instalou pelo gerenciador de pacotes, o diretório de dados /var/lib/mongodb e o diretório de log /var/log/mongodb serão criados durante a instalação.

Se você não tiver certeza de qual sistema de inicialização sua plataforma usa, execute o seguinte comando:

ps --no-headers -o comm 1

Inicie o MongoDB.
Você pode iniciar o processo mongod emitindo o seguinte comando:

sudo systemctl start mongod

Se receber um erro semelhante ao seguinte ao iniciar o mongod:

Failed to start mongod.service: Unit mongod.service not found.

Execute o seguinte comando primeiro:

sudo systemctl daemon-reload

Em seguida, execute o comando de inicialização acima novamente.

2
Verifique se o MongoDB foi iniciado com sucesso.
sudo systemctl status mongod

Opcionalmente, você pode garantir que o MongoDB iniciará após reinicialização do sistema emitindo o seguinte comando:

sudo systemctl enable mongod

3
Pare o MongoDB.
Conforme necessário, você pode interromper o processo mongod emitindo o seguinte comando:

sudo systemctl stop mongod

4
Reinicie o MongoDB.
Você pode reiniciar o processo mongod emitindo o seguinte comando:

sudo systemctl restart mongod

Você pode acompanhar o estado do processo em busca de erros ou mensagens importantes observando o resultado no arquivo /var/log/mongodb/mongod.log.

5
Comece a usar o MongoDB.
Inicie uma sessão mongosh na mesma máquina host que o mongod. Você pode executar mongosh sem nenhuma opção de linha de comando para se conectar a um mongod que esteja sendo executado em seu host local com a porta padrão 27017.

mongosh


CREATE FRONTEND

npx create-react-app .

npm install axios react-router-dom bootstrap react-toastify


SEND EMAIL WITH PASSWORD RESET TOKEN

npm install nodemailer